Thanks for your patience.
Uh, the earlier I outcome went longer than we
thought. That means
You can cross examinee us for less time.
Quick fire. Quick fire. Are you feeling happy about that?
Is it?
Thank you. Thank you so much.
So now we have, um, yeah, um, uh, until, uh, two o'clock.
And if you would like to start by introducing yourselves
and then some opening remarks.
If you could keep your opening remarks really, really brief,
like around two minutes.
And then we will have questions from members.
Thank you. Thank you.
Um, good afternoon, Kira. I'm Susie Staley.
I'm the chair of the Broadcasting Standards Authority
and of course I have here my Chief executive Stacey Wood.
And, uh, she will complete the opening remarks.
Thank you Madam Chair.
Thank you. Thank you. Sorry.
Under two minutes I'll do my best. Uh,
Under two minutes.
Under two minutes, yeah.
In two minutes max. I know it's tough.
Alright. It's been, uh, two
and a half years since we last appeared in front of you.
So I will just give a really quick, uh, refresher on
who we are and what we do.
Uh, the BSA is a independent crown entity,
a PSI judicial tribunal.
Uh, we're governed by a four person board, chaired by Susie,
uh, supported by eight staff, including me.
So we are not quite the smallest crown
entity, but we are pretty close.
Um, we exist to uphold standards and broadcasting.
Uh, so our jurisdiction is over programs.
It's audio visual content transmitted to the public
by any means of telecommunication.
And traditionally, this has meant terrestrial
and satellite TV and radio.
And our act specifically excludes on demand content,
um, with the huge change to how people consume media.
Since our act was passed in 1989, uh,
it's no longer exactly clear where the edges
of our jurisdiction are.
And we've had some advice that it may include online radio
or TV stations, uh, but not the likes of Netflix, of course,
because of the on demand exclusion
with reg regulatory reform of our act being on
and off the agenda in the last few years.
And with our limited resources,
we've held off on a full review
of our complaints in maybe jurisdiction.
Uh, but we do need legislative clarity, uh,
to bring our act into the present.
And even our most traditional broadcasters are moving
towards digital only offerings.
So they need that clarity as well.
Uh, our vision is freedom of expression without harm, uh,
which is simple to say, but not
always simple to give a feature.
Two. But I'll leave it there. Thank, thank you.
And happy to answer any questions you have. Yeah.
We'll start with Uben Davidson.
Thank you. And thank you for that, um, for that opening.
You, you mentioned in the, in your opening comments, um,
alternative platforms for content.
So we know more New Zealand as a consuming content
through online platforms like social media.
You'd agree with that? Yes. Yeah.
So that content currently sits outside of the BSA
regulatory remit, but do you see the similarities
between some of that content
where perhaps on a platform you can find a 40 minute
video, for example, on YouTube?
Uh, it's the same format as a documentary or radio program.
Are you, you're finding this kind
of thing across multiple platforms?
Can I, uh, just before you answer,
I know you can answer the question.
Can I say that this is the, uh,
review briefing on 20 23, 20 24, um,
annual review of broadcasting.
So if you want to bring your questions to the annual review,
rather than having a general policy discussion
or a senior opinions on that.
So if you bring it back to that,
that would be fine. I'll let the question
Go ahead. So evidenced
in, in the review is that shift
of viewership from, uh, traditional terrestrial
or broadcast media into online platforms.
Um, and on those online platforms, part of that shift is
because the equivalent content now sits on those online
platforms as opposed to in the broadcast
ones that are measured here.
Um, so I, I guess the question here is,
um, that shift, are you tracking
actively where the, the platforms
that are carrying that content?
Yeah, we, we are not tracking it.
Uh, however, we are conscious and we do have research
and surveys, not just by ourselves,
but by others that show
where those audiences are accessing their content.
There is an argument for a platform platform agnostic
approach to regulation where we are looking at who,
who's producing the content rather than
where are they seeing, where are people watching it.
Mm-hmm. Uh, because we know there's, you know,
there's a huge range of approaches to regulation
of social media and it's quite a different concept
to the regulation of, uh, broadcast content.
There's some different concepts of harm prevention
and safety that you're trying to address.
So it is not a one size fits all approach.
Um, I don't know if that answers your question again.
Can I add, can I add that?
I mean, as you'll be aware, we're not a policy shop. Mm-hmm.
We certainly keep an eye on with our resources
and we only have certain amount of resources
and we're conscious of using them correctly.
We give input to, as a, we hope an expert advisor
to the, to the ministry on possible changes.
Um, and it's fair to say that in this area,
every jurisdiction, certainly democratic jurisdictions are
struggling you to see what's happening in the uk uh,
Australia and the eu.
So Stacey did join a group some years ago now, uh,
and to Ireland to have a look at what they're doing.
But nothing has particularly moved on in New Zealand.
It, it is hard, and we are not really there at the moment.
We, we do struggle sometimes with our definition
of broadcasting, which is 35 years old. Mm-hmm.
Yeah. Quite a lot's changed in most days. Yes, it has.
So, um, just, just one or two things.
So a a furthest up on that I guess would be, given
that you have a really, um,
or you have a good understanding of what you are regulating,
that doesn't necessarily mean that viewers do.
So are you receiving complaints from people for content
that in your regulatory framework isn't broadcasting?
Yeah, we, we regularly get inquiries
and complaints from people about content that we can't
or don't regulate or,
and sometimes it's an easy matter of redirecting them
to the media council or advertising standards authority.
And other times it's saying, um,
tell Facebook your problems.
Um, we, and nobody has regulatory purview over that.
Yeah. And are you, are you measuring the, um, complaints
that aren't covered?
We measure them as a blog, um,
but we don't track where everyone's going.
So it's probably around a quarter to a fifth of inquiries
that we get, uh, uh, fluctuates over time.
People got, people get, um, interested in different issues.
Yeah. Uh, but that's, that's about it. You know,
We, we have, it's a very interesting question
'cause I asked my chief executive the same,
but we would say about 20% of our staff's time
or is spent, uh, triaging and sort of arbitrage.
We have a policy of no wrong door
amongst the, uh, authorities.
So it might just be say,
well this is actually advertising standards.
But you're right. There's still a gap, uh,
and sort of, uh, NetSafe of course, uh,
but there isn't any other regulated that's dealing
with the platforms for which you've referred.
We, we also don't have a good idea of
how many people would complain if they knew there was a
complaints process to complain through.
Yeah.
So just to up on that,
because a lot of content that people discover online
originated in a broadcast medium.
So if someone wants to complain about a piece of content
that they've seen on an unnamed platform
and they come to you, but you know that it originate,
do you redirect people to say,
try re try resubmitting this complaint
with the original broadcast details? Uh,
Yeah. If they're able to provide
the original broadcast details
and the original broadcasters within our timeframe,
then we can accept it.
Yeah. Uh, so if it's got a clear source on it,
that's one of our broadcasters.
If it says one news on it, uh, we can advise 'em
to contact the broadcaster
and, um, find out the original broadcast date.
But if it's outside of that timeframe,
then even though it's still accessible online,
can no longer take a complaint about it.
And just to be really clear on that,
'cause you're saying that's something you can do,
but is that something that you proactively do?
Yep. Yep.
Alright. Uh, new question from Linda.
Yeah. It's a new question, but also
Sort of a sub along the same lines as my colleague.
'cause I'm wondering about how,
and it's great that you've said
that no door is the wrong door mm-hmm.
In this space. Um,
and understanding, you know, that front facing
customer service type approach, um,
and the fact that there are some people that you know,
really need that liaison.
Do you think that this continues to be a gap across, uh,
regulators and in the complaints process?
'cause we've heard it in other spaces that, um,
knowing fully what the brief is
of each organization really helps place the complainant in
the right space and with you in an
ever changing environment.
Um, you know, how, how does that work for you practically
with staff who are on the phone
or online trying to, um, divide up the work
and the complaints that are coming through the door? Yeah.
Uh, we have good relationships with our co regulators
and our different spaces.
So where there's an issue, um, that we're identifying
with people not coming to the right door, uh, we'll come up
with ways to support them.
So for instance, when it comes around
to general election time, the electoral advertising
and programming regulation rules are
very fragmented and overlapping.
And so we put out, for example, joint comms
with the electoral commission,
the Media Council Advertising Standards Authority so
that everyone knows who's doing what.
Uh, we can inform watches
and uh, direct them to the right place.
All the while knowing that if it's advertising on social
media, anything goes out. Yeah,
Yeah, yeah. No,
Just Stop on that.
Um, 'cause I, I like, I know in the report
that we've received, like there's, I guess, um,
differing views in terms of the, the quality of the handling
of the complaints and, um, you know,
some people are satisfied
and not, um, what's your internal processes for evaluating
how you can improve in the way that you handle complaints,
but also, and it's, uh,
customer satisfaction is something very different,
but, you know, you're always trying to look for ways
with which to standardize and improve
Practice. Absolutely. So
part of our oversight
of the standard system is,
and our engagement functions is to check in with
complainants, broadcasters
and the public to check that we are getting things right.
So we do the complainant survey in years,
like the recent years where the vast majority, over 90%
of complaints haven't been upheld,
people are a bit more dissatisfied just
with the process just because it hasn't given them
the outcome that they wanted. Um, but, and they
Feel free to tell us that.
But, but generally Language that I couldn't possibly
Repeat, generally still happy with the process
that they've experienced.
Uh, we do litmus testing where we go out
and get focus groups with the public on a, um, group
of decisions on a topic or a standard
and say, explain the reasoning and then say, do you agree?
And generally those results are sort of around the 90% mark
of people who, even if they would don't agree,
they understand why a decision's been made the way it has.
So we have pretty robust evidence externally
and internally that we're applying the standards
consistently and clearly,
and that our staff are treating
people with care and respect.
And we also do research with, in terms of, um,
efficiency and costs.
We are now move that to every two years,
but a topic of, we get our complaints
and it may be a particular area that we struggle with
or that we had a lot of complaints in, uh,
with that is reviewed.
Uh, it's a research piece of paper usually
by an expert in the field.
Mm-hmm. We've just recently done that.
So, and then any learnings from that, uh, we, we then bring
to the table when we are dealing
with complaints. Thank you.
Alright. Yeah. Thank you Madam Chair.
Just going a bit further into the litmus testing that you,
that you referenced there.
Um, and it's outlined in the report some
of the previous areas of focus for that.
Um, how do you identify those as areas of focus?
Different ways? Uh, sometimes it's a rise in the number
and complaints about a particular topic
or under a different standard.
Sometimes it's based on the authorities, um,
Where we've struggled Yeah.
Where, where they've been complex or difficult and,
and the world is moving on.
Um, yep. So it, it, it is a, a slight finger in the air,
but it's a, we review what we've done
and it's always good
to get somebody else also commenting on
looking a hindsight review.
So we don't just say, we are wonderful
and we carry on doing what we're doing.
So it, there is some judgment in that,
but it, it hasn't proved difficult to find topics
that perhaps have been a bit naughty
for us over the previous couple of years. Yeah.
And do you have, have you identified, like, how,
how do you project out that, um, the future work and,
and how do you identify
how far in advance you identify other
issues, future research?
Uh, well, it's probably not so far in advance.
When we look at our statement of intent
and our, our commitment, it's what we say, well,
what we have to do in hindsight, we say what has been, uh,
difficult or complex over the last uh,
period, and that's how we do it.
And it's on a rolling basis.
So it's different, different areas
that we might let miss test. Sure.
Where we do look ahead though, is, uh,
with our guidance and our yeah.
Advisories, uh, where we can see that there's a number
of complaints coming in on an issue,
and we might want to give some guidance either
to broadcasters or complainants about complaints
that are likely or unlikely to succeed or care
and reporting, then that's
where we'll be a bit more broadly looking
At. Yeah. And a
concrete example of that is during COVID
we all remember COVID, we've got a, a large number
of complaints about everything.
And there's was a common theme that started to come through
to, you know, well, well, the way through COVID that,
you know, the COVID vaccination was unsafe.
And, and we, and in the end we said, we are,
we are wasting taxpayer's money here.
We will not entertain in itself a complaint that just says
because the Minister of Health
or Health New Zealand deficit, we take it
that it is safe within those boundaries
that also then elicits a slight variation
that it's not safe for pregnant women.
So, so that's moving forward
and that helps the broadcasters as well
because we are only seeing, you know, tip of the iceberg.
They of course have their own internal complaints, um,
mechanism and they have, they receive,
receive volumes more than we do.
That's right. Yeah. Before
They, so you've, any other subry from you?
Not on me. Got, thank you.
Um, I just wanted to dig into
how the organization has changed, um,
since previous years particularly.
Um, it's, it's a useful discussion about
what has changed since that pandemic period.
And I imagine that you have made some changes around the way
that you assess things like accuracy
and the way that people's perception of truth
and accuracy is being presented
to you when you're complaining.
Um, but first can I ask you about the proposal
that would've seen BSA administer
and monitor the new fair bargaining framework for news media
and digital platforms?
Um, that was something that would've had a big impact on
the organization.
Um, it would've been a response
to changes in the way your audiences consume content.
Um, so how, you know, how, how did the,
did did the organization make organizational change?
What are the transitional arrangements?
How should we understand your governance arrangements
as is moving on from there?
Sorry, what Was that full
For? Fair Digital?
Oh yeah. Yeah.
We, we haven't made any organizational changes.
Uh, the bill didn't progress mm-hmm.
To a point where we needed to, uh, we did do sort
of road mapping talking to overseas like bodies, um,
to sort of see what, what would be needed.
But, uh, with the sort of changing global circumstances
and uncertainty as to whether it would go ahead, we, uh,
stop short of any organizational change.
Okay. That's good. Mm-hmm. Um, no, no.
Who, who has a question? Oh, just one more, um,
just uh, on that.
So with eight people sort
of administering the complaints process, um, if we needed
to build in that kind of framework
and capacity to the organization, what,
what expansion were you predicting in that year to, to now?
Like, what would have been the change?
Oh, we'd want to quadruple in size.
We don't, the answer is without having looked at
what it would involve.
Yeah. And we've talked to
and what our role would be, uh, we wouldn't,
we wouldn't immediately propose changes.
'cause essentially, you dunno what you don't know. Yeah.
And then it may be just with my business head on
that you would contract, you know, to, to, to establish, uh,
and, and any regulatory change,
we would look at our own resources first.
Uh, and then we work with our monitor as well as
to what that could involve.
And it could maybe seconding people from
other parts of government.
Uh, we don't rule out anything, so
we haven't now spent a lot of time on that
because it, it's really why would we,
until we know we get some certainty. Yeah.
We, we did do some early ball parking
and I think we estimated
around a million per year in the establishment phase that
those figures are a couple of years old now.
So they may not be totally accurate,
but it was sort of in that Yeah. Range
Until we have more detail.
We couldn't really put a business case together,
but that would be worked very closely
with the ministry on that as well. Alright. Okay.
Uh, is it a supplementary sub? A supplementary?
So if there's a, there's a sort of a ballpark figure,
but maybe a couple of years outta date now,
is there a ballpark timeframe on on?
Well, I mean, we, well,
If we're honest it, it's in advance.
So we are not spending pretty much of our time,
No, sorry. Not on the Oh, you mean not
on the progression of the bill.
Yeah. Um, we've stopped asking that question,
but on the, um, on the ability for, um, BSA
to be ready to go with people
to be able to administer it. Yeah.
I think there were timeframes in the bill.
It was around about a year for establishment. Yeah.
And then another six months for having regulations in place.
Or maybe it was the other way around.
Uh, but there we were anticipating being able
to meet those statutory timeframes. Yeah.
But if we needed to stand it up quickly, we would Yeah.
Pretty, pretty nimble. Yeah.
That would, uh, that would take a lot
of focus, but we could do it.
Yeah. But again, it's what, what what money comes with it.
Thank you. Uh,
Thank you. Um,
I want to ask you about the, um, new streamlines
of the streamlined way of dealing with complaints
that I think came into effect, um, financial year 21 or 22.
Um, and how you've seen those now thinking through,
they've had a little bit of time to bid in,
but the information environment has even changed in
that time, particularly public trust of New Zealanders.
Yeah. Um, how are you balancing, uh, that, you know,
the need to use taxpayers money wisely
and to act in the public interest with that, particularly
that accuracy test?
Um, when people are coming to you
and saying, you know, a number of your complaints are
around, um, the truth of climate change
or the truth of, um, something which is presented
as a scientific report.
How are you balancing that now
where people are getting their information from a range
of sources, which is far outside of your purview?
Well, I suppose the answer is we can only deal
with a complaint when it comes in.
It must be about a broadcast.
So there's a threshold
and it must have first of all, gone to the broadcaster.
So I don't know if this is quite answering you.
So what we are seeing, and you mentioned accuracy,
and it's interesting, we debate this ourselves.
There is now a number of complaints
where they are biases used.
Bias is not a standard and media are allowed to be biased.
It's editorial discretion.
Um, and usually it's tied up with really,
it's an accuracy complaints or balance complaints.
So you sort of triage them.
And of course we do have the ability to add, uh,
if we think it's in the interest of the complaint,
that they really should have complained under balance.
Um, I think increasingly the, we do struggle to a degree.
It's interesting. We have bias usually against
all of you politicians.
And it's usually one, we get them evenly balanced.
So, so, so you know, that bias, that's not how it feels.
But the trend currently seems to be what was not included
and ought to have been included.
And that's, we say, well, that's not our, that
that is editorial discretion.
Now there are conceivable, there may be times where
notwithstanding editorial, uh, discretion, there are matters
that really ought to have been laid out a little more.
But they are rare. They, they are rare.
And that's a struggle for us.
We are not here to tell newsrooms particularly what to do.
It's have they breached any of the standards.
And, and those standards, you're quite right, do moves
with societal norms and we hope that we reflect that.
I don't think we are there to run ahead.
We are to there to reflect societal norms.
Yes. If I can. Thank you.
Um, I guess that's what I'm trying to get to.
Those, um, streamlined processes that were developed, um,
21, 22, um, were in a period where, um, people's consumption
of information was a bit different.
Um, where people's, you know, new Zealanders perception of,
um, things like climate change
and um, efficacy of vaccines was, was rapidly changing
because of the information environment
that they were, um, in.
And now we have quite a different sort of political, uh,
lens over a lot of that sort of information,
which perhaps then was presented as sort of factually
above the fright.
So what I'm trying to understand is
how do you make those calls when you are presented with,
and I don't want to bring the committee into the actual
decisions that you have made. 'cause those are,
You can't, no, we can't. Those
Are decisions.
Um, but there is a trend
and that is the way that, um,
most New Zealanders would engage with what you do and,
and the value of your organization is those decisions.
And many of them are about who's right,
who is the narrator of this narrative.
Yeah. I think it's about the content,
if the content is correct or not.
Yeah. Uh, according to, you know, who is viewing it.
Yeah, yeah. Correct. Kind of question. Yeah.
Just in regards to those streamlined processes, I think,
um, we might be referring to a time when, um,
we had a high number of complaints, not, uh, the team wasn't
as big as it, as huge as it is now.
Um, and, and we had quite a backlog of complaints.
So we used those streamlined processes
to manage our resources and clear that backlog.
In the last couple of years,
complaint numbers have come back down
first to average levels.
And actually in the financial year that's just ended,
which is not yet under review.
Uh, we only got 89 formal complaints,
which is the first time we've had less than a hundred since
the establishment years of the BSA in the early 19. That
Might point to also what you're saying,
that's what we are saying as well.
Yeah. So it points to a quite a mature
co-regulatory system.
It points to diminishing traditional broadcasting audiences,
but it also points to, um, broadcasters,
broadcasters understanding the
standards and applying them well.
Uh, and also dealing really well
with the many complaints that they get.
'cause we know broadcasters get magnitudes more complaints
than ever get referred to us.
And they treat people generally
with a lot of care and respect.
And so we don't see the vast majority of them,
but it means that we don't need to run, uh,
a streamlined process at the moment.
Um, even a complaint which the authority declines
to determine, which is one of its options under the act,
still gets a written decision explaining why they've decline
to determine the complaint.
So it's, um, yeah, it's, we are, we're still efficient,
but we are not running a, um, yeah.
As a sta helps. Yeah.
Uh, new question. Yeah. New primary. Thank you.
So, um, in the report, the, there's quite a bit of coverage
of the website, um,
and, um, the stat of 57% of complainants being satisfied
with the website in 23, um, which is a big decrease right.
From 21, 22.
Did you make any significant changes
to the site during that time?
No. I don't know
that we even made any insignificant changes
to the website during that time.
However, we have made some changes since then
and we're to make some came out
and we're gonna make some more. What
About our videos that we have put videos
On? Um, in the last, uh,
12 months, we've created a series of,
uh, videos that explain in really clear terms how
to use our process, who can use our process.
Uh, and we've put those front
and center on our home page, uh, have pretty good feedback.
And actually our latest website ratings results were an
improvement on the ones
that you will have seen in the annual report
that's currently under review.
'cause we're talking about sort of 18 months ago now.
So, yeah. Yeah. We've had a bit of time to respond
to those. Yeah, I appreciate
That. Um,
I mean, I had a look.
Couldn't see what there wants to complain about.
Felt very clear. So, um, no complaint from me, just
for the record, but, um, yeah, it is,
and it explains, there's a lot of explanation in it,
which is, but it's very well worded.
Um, so is have you
had any external consultation on why that might have been
that people were unhappy with
or reportedly unhappy with the website?
Have you?
No. Um, but it sort of ties to
dissatisfaction in other areas.
I feel, um, you know,
distrust in trust lower than distrust in media,
distrust in public institutions,
lower complainant satisfaction, sort,
general disgruntlement.
Um, it also could just be a blip.
Uh, so one, we,
we haven't put too much stock in one year's worth
of survey results.
However, we have taken action
to make the website a bit more friendly
and, uh, approachable.
'cause we know that some of our resources were a bit, um,
wordy, so try to simplify them a bit.
Um, could I be bold and say that it could be relevant?
Yeah. How relevant are we to the youth? We're not.
Mm-hmm. Okay. Um,
New question. Yeah.
Just wanna ask about the, um, uh,
living income in this year.
Um, and thinking about the way that it is, uh, at risk
because of closures in the sector.
Um, how has that affected your financial planning this year?
Um, with the closure of, I think it's,
it was many weeks closure in the previous
financial year to this one.
Yeah. It's been so many. Yeah. And that,
That would've, but that would've been, I guess,
the big one that would've Yeah.
Affected your financial performance this year.
So can you talk through, um, you know, the way
that you've responded to it in this year
and how you intend to respond in the next couple of years?
Yeah. So we've been pretty conservative
with our levy forecasts the last few years, knowing how
challenging it is for local media at the moment.
And, you know, some of the
closures have resulted in gains for other media,
others have not.
So, uh, it's not easy to predict.
Um, and so far
media have been doing pretty good job of adapting.
Levies have been falling, but they've been falling slower
than we've forecast.
Uh, but we just continue to engage with broadcasters
where we can, um, keep a pulse on who's doing what,
but also just take a conservative approach
and go what's probably the worst that could happen.
Mm-hmm.
Is it just supplementary? Okay. Yeah.
If, um, given, given the forecast decline, um,
if it's not fair news, digital bargaining, um,
how you've joined other, um, regulators overseas
who are grappling with the same environment you are, um,
does that look like the levy going up for the current, um,
payers of that levy?
Does it look like fewer people in your organization able
to respond to complaints?
Does it look like complaints? Um,
We're running, I think we're running,
we run a very tight ship.
Uh, we are running probably with one less staff member now,
which we can manage, um,
after we haven't declared what we have a,
it's a better year than we had anticipated.
'cause it probably, uh, 'cause we are conservative,
but I don't think there's anything
but long term the levies will go down.
There's fewer organizations. So it's each and every year.
Or we do try and predict that you can't forecast out
because look at the closures we've just had.
Mm-hmm. Um, but we are doing, working
with a limited mandate and that's what we have to do.
And we do carry quite heavy reserves.
Um, but, uh, there'll be a time that
that is not enough.
But it's not here yet. The,
Um, the Levy's formula is written into our act.
So we don't have the capacity to, uh,
collect more if we need it on a, in a particular year.
It's, it's very,
And we control our expenses tightening.
We're not extravagant.
Um, obviously we're, we're interested
'cause we, we do often change the law.
Um, but, um, help us to understand, um, you know,
are there jurisdictions like ours that use,
say private services to field complex?
Um, is, you mentioned contracting out, is this a service
that doesn't have, um, government
behind it in some jurisdictions?
Um, no. Trying to understand the public good here
because there is clearly a public good.
But if, um, if we quietly watch it shrink, uh,
then there will be less, less public Good.
Um, and so trying to understand how we make sure
that people can still raise issues of accuracy
and consistency offense.
Well, it, first of all, yes, it has
to be an understanding from any government that they want
some regulator regulating these types of things.
Mm-hmm. Broadcasting in its traditional sense
has shrunk and is shrinking.
So it's, what is a broadcast
or is it professional me news media,
because most of the complaints are news.
Or if you look at other jurisdictions of common in the uk,
and I suspect you don't want to follow their direction.
It is huge. They, they're now online safety of course.
And they have huge number of analysts.
They have a vast budget for online harm.
Uh, the EU is tackling it as the eu Ireland
likewise are trying other things.
And our friends in Australia
and Canada, they all,
most western democracies do have some form of regulation.
Mm-hmm. Um, and some of them are tackling those
who pay no levies currently.
Mm-hmm. And that's the large online platforms. Mm-hmm.
But, um, how you do, it's easy to say, hard to do. Mm-hmm.
Alright. We have a new primary from David Wilson. Yeah.
Related. Thank you Irina.
Um, you're dealing
with the whole ecosystem really here aren't Yes.
We're regulators and gaps. Yep.
Um, so just drawing on your experience, um,
and this may help us in our deliberations, from your corner
of the sandbox, how do you think we should be looking at
making that ecosystem work better?
Yeah. So can I say
that this is like the review their performance there,
we are examining their performance, I realize
for 20 23, 20 24.
So, um, can we ask your advice later?
So you, I think if you want to bring it back to the review
and you can be looking forward little bit,
but it needs to kind of really relate to the work
that Yeah. 'cause you feel
A lot of experience.
Yeah. And No, no, I understand. But yeah.
So you can you want to rephrase your question?
No, I, I think I've got it
Now. Madam chair. I, we
could give a very
quick bullet point answer.
Okay. We're prepared. Well, first of all, I think
any government has to decide is if it is a protection
of freedom of speech and that that is our cornerstone.
Uh, secondly, focus primarily on content
rather than platforms.
Not how it's disseminated, but what, uh,
and then adopt, we would
of course say a colleague regulatory approach
and even it out because some of the broadcasters, of course,
are paying levies to us.
They're media councils where
and the advertising standards they are, you know, they,
they are paying many others pay nothing.
Yeah. So there's, thank you for that.
You can solve that one, Dr. Wilson.
That might, might even it up.
Yeah. Yeah. That's all right. Thank you.
So yeah, again, members, I just want you
to bring the questions to the review because Thank you.
They have given their time
and it's our opportunity to examine how they did, uh, in
that year, extract that information.
We can have general discussion like other times.
Uh, so any other questions members? Ruben Davidson.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
In the review, you talk about media sector training.
There's some detailed of sort of seminar sessions
that happen with media sector around, I guess trying
to avoid complaints, right. Would be,
Um, I mean, It, it,
Avoiding complaints isn't necessarily the goal.
Yes, yes. How to have great media content that doesn't,
doesn't get complaints.
Um, how that, given the disruption in,
in the media sector since, since that report,
have you seen continued uptake of those opportunities?
Are you still running them at the same level?
Uh, yeah. They've always been, uh, ad hoc, uh, not done
to a regular schedule because some
of our bigger broadcasters, um, you know,
they've been doing this for decades.
They know the standards, they know the system.
So it might be when they have a team
turnover within the team that they need a refresher.
Uh, others, uh, we've done quite a few
for smaller broadcasters in the last 12 months.
Um, so ones
that don't even necessarily have complaints coming in
regularly enough to know what to do with them,
but they wanna be prepared for when they do get one.
Uh, so the short answer, yes, uh, we continue to do them.
Um, it's, uh, as needed rather than on a fixed schedule.
And also journalism school still Yeah. Still do journalism
Skills As well.
So are you doing any of those training sessions for media?
That's strictly speaking, might not be seen as broadcasting?
Not really, no. No, I don't think so.
It's somebody, it's, It's not real,
not not broadcasting as we understand it.
No. Yeah. We're not going out to print media and giving them
Advice. No, no. But
sorry, to be clear on my question, platform
or say content creators on pla.
So if, if you were given that there'll be a number of people
who are in training institutions, currently,
journalism school, for example, who potentially will never
generate content for traditional broadcasting platforms,
but may generate a lot of content.
So I guess if they're in a formal training setting,
they'll potentially get some interaction with BSA.
Mm-hmm. But if they're not, are you, are people seeking out
that engagement with you
and if they are, are they getting it?
Or do you refuse it?
Uh, we don't have the peoples really
seeking us out in that way.
Uh, we don't, there may be people who are using our website,
our amazing website for those resources,
but we, uh, we don't track that.
Uh, we, we do do some other engagement functions.
Like we, uh, in the last year we produced a resource
for the National Association of Media Educators.
Um, and we, so we do,
but we've gotta be careful going outside of our remit.
'cause we have limited resources even to serve our, those
that are within our jurisdiction. So,
Um, and we're conscious of
who pays levies and who does not.
Yes. Uh, the, the, we did have a stakeholder meeting.
Um, we try and back them in once a year.
We, I live in Dunedin, but we get outta Wellington
and go, generally the broadcast is men mainly are based in
Auckland, but we open that to, uh, general
platforms if they wish people producing content.
It was a, a thought piece, an afternoon discussion with them
and us to say, well, what does the future look like?
And how quickly is like,
it's gonna be quicker than everyone thinks.
It's, it's already here.
And, and so we did have some, um, people who came to that
who weren't our traditional broadcasters.
Mm-hmm. And Other than that, we're very conscious of
what our mandate is and who we serve
because it's, it's not really outside of that. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. I've got a new primary. New primary. Yeah.
Thank you madam. Um, there isn't any explicit reference
to artificial intelligence or ai I could see in the report,
but given the timestamp of where the report period captures,
I can understand that it's moved pretty quick.
Are there, like, where are you at with,
because of my thinking would be knowing what AI can do,
knowing the role that you do mm-hmm.
There's huge potential gains in a number of areas.
Where, where is that at for, at a sort of high level?
Where is that at for the BSA?
Uh, we're trialing, uh, we're in the early stages.
And contrary, I guess to, um, what you might expect,
there isn't, um, there isn't a burning need
for it in our, uh, day-to-day work,
particularly at the moment
where we are sufficiently resourced.
Complaint numbers are not out the gate.
Um, we, you know, legal lawyers around the world,
'cause most of our staff are lawyers, uh, lawyers
around the world are grappling with the,
not only the opportunities, but the risks of ai.
And so naturally we're careful
and cautious about, um, any use in our drafting
or decision making processes.
Um, but recognize the opportunities.
We are doing a limited trial till the end of the year to see
where it can assist us.
And in terms of the, our stakeholders, we certainly have
discussed with them and amongst ourselves at the board,
what are the risks if a com plank comes in
and it's, it's about a new source, for example,
it's generated by ai,
but they're of course right onto their game as well.
And it would be, uh, they would still be held
to the same standard just because it's generated by ai.
In fact, I think the broadcasters are fair to say,
probably a lot further down the track than many of us
because of the fake news issue for them. Yeah.
Yeah. Okay. Uh,
New primary. New primary.
Yep. Um, just on that, um, it's going really
Good topic. Are
we able to capture the voice?
Because it feels like we are really quiet room,
so it should be loud enough, isn't it?
For hand side. Yeah. Cool. Yeah,
Just on the, on the fake news, misinformation topic
and, um, there's an example in the report
around a broadcaster who made a claim
that was factually incorrect.
And there's obviously a penalty for
that if the complains upheld, which in this example, um,
the complaint was, there's a few
questions off the back of that.
One is that arguably the damage
is already done at that point.
Right. So, um, I guess it's about how you ascertain
that the penalty
or apology that's sort is proportionate to the
how, how do you, how, how you can calculate that?
Well this is, um, yeah, you've raised a good point that
by the time we go through our complaints process,
even if it's run efficiently in the interest
of natural justice, everyone has
to have an opportunity to make submissions.
It's a few months between broadcast and decision.
But last time we reviewed the accuracy standard, um,
we, it, it became part of the standard is
that if an error is made, if the material error is made,
it needs to be corrected within a reasonable time
after becoming aware of it.
So we are not only looking at, um, whether an error,
whether people were misinformed,
but what actions were taken
by the broadcaster in the meantime to correct that.
So trying to push that back on the broadcaster
so they're not waiting for the outcome
of a broadcasting complaint
before they decide to run a correction.
Uh, and, and most of the time where a major error is made,
uh, broadcasters are pretty quick to correct it.
But, um, it's the fact
of a legacy system where it used
to be if you made a error on the six o'clock news
and if correction was broadcast,
you'd get the same audience, new media, you don't know
that it's gonna get people.
So there is a risk of people being misinformed.
Yeah. But how do we decide?
Well, we look back to president.
We have policy on, you know, and we, and, and ca
and decision, we're quasi-judicial.
So we, we look back at precedent, what,
what's the maximum fine, you know, it's not very large.
What is an appropriate, if it's a broadcast statement,
and sometimes complainants ask, they want all sorts
of things that they're not going to get
because it's not within our jurisdiction.
So it is a balancing act using precedent, using
what our policy statements are
and what we've previously, what's acceptable in terms
of our legislation, uh, and, and standards.
And just to further us up on that,
and it's sort of an inception question,
but what if someone complains about the
apology for a complaint? Like, does that happen?
Complain about What? Complain about a
correction or an apology?
Yeah. Yeah. It hasn't happened in our
Time. It's
usually back battered backwards and forwards.
And if it's a broadcast statement, we have to approve it.
Yeah. And sometimes, you know, so
where sometimes the broadcaster might want to play around
with we saying, well, yes or no, we have to approve that
and timing when, if, if it's a broadcast statement, we have
to approve when it is going to be broadcast. Um, so
Do you receive complaints about apologies for complaints?
No, we haven't Have we? Not that I'm aware of.
Not that we're aware of. Good to hear.
That's a good sign for The apology.
That's good. All right.
Looks like, um, that's, uh,
the questions for members for now.
You might get some written questions later on
for responses in writing.
Thank you. So thank you so much, uh, SU and thanks Stacy.
Thank you very much. I don't think I've been for committed
with so many doctors, so
None a real dog.